# A book of Python in Rmarkdown
I love this book. It's not only written in Rmarkdown but also explains the fundamentals of Python in a live book; totally reproducible.

Kudos to the author [Keh-Soon Yong (AP)](https://github.com/yongks), who published the original code in GitHub [here](https://github.com/yongks/python_bookdown).

My contribution consists of making it even more reproducible: 

* adding instructions to build the Python environment with Anaconda (`environment.yml`); 
* adding a `Makefile` to automate the builds outside RStudio; 
* making the book available online as a website through *GitHub Pages* [here](https://f0nzie.github.io/yongks-python-rmarkdown-book/); and 
* adding an R script to load the Python environment for each Rmarkdown document.


## The power of Rmarkdown
**Rmarkdown** opens infinite creation possibilities to data scientists, engineers and analysts for the production of documents, reports, analysis, tutorials, manuals, papers, thesis, presentations, slides, or even websites or blogs. Some of the advantages of writing your documents in Rmarkdown are:

- Documents are fully written in text which can be opened at any time with a simple text editor

- Documents are totally reproducible and able to be put under version control such as Git, and published to GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or other cloud repositories

- Multiple coding languages can be embedded in a single document and executed during builds which makes calculations less error prone, or easier to pinpoint

- Plots, figures and images are generated by the code in Rmarkdown which make copy-and-paste a thing of the past

- Python and R can mutually interchange values of objects or variables in the same Rmarkdown document

- Rmarkdown documents can be built to be HTML books, Git books, PDF books, and other output formats


## Build the book
### R installation
I built this book with `R-3.6.3` in a **Debian-10** Linux operating system.

### Anaconda
The Anaconda version I used was the July version of 2020.

### Build the gitbook
From a terminal, run:

    make gitbook1

or 

    make gitbook2


Both do the same thing: building the Rmarkdown book. I left the two options available for the reader to get familiar with `Makefile`; how to set environment variables from the shell, or set it from within R.

If the book builds successfully, it should open your browser with the main page of the book. This is all handled by `make` and the commands in `Makefile`.


## Optional after building the book
If you make changes to the Rmarkdown documents, you may want to tidy up or totally clean from auxiliary and files that were generated during the knitting process. The are two rules in the `Makefile`: `tidy` and `clean `.

### Tidy up the folder
This deletes the auxiliary files that were created during the book building process.

    make tidy

### Clean up the folder
Does `make tidy` plus deletes the publication folder, to start over fresh.

    make clean



## Original README
This is a minimal example of a book based on R Markdown and **bookdown** (https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown). Please see the page "[Get Started](https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/get-started.html)" at https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/ for how to compile this example into HTML. You may generate a copy of the book in `bookdown::pdf_book` format by calling `bookdown::render_book('index.Rmd', 'bookdown::pdf_book')`. More detailed instructions are available here https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/build-the-book.html.

You can find the preview of this example at https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown-demo/.

